Billions of dollars are spent [music]
spying on Americans, whether it's NSA or
CIA or the FBI. And to make matters
worse, we know that the CIA can take
control remotely of a car's computer
system in order to crash the car, take
it off a bridge, or take control of your
smart TV and turn a speaker into a
microphone,
>> even though the TV is off and broadcast
back to the CIA. [music]
>> Can they do that with devices?
>> Absolutely. And I'll tell you how we
know. There was a CIA software engineer
who was disgruntled and he [music]
downloaded tens of thousands of
documents classified above top secret
and instead of going to the Russians or
the Chinese, he went to Wikileaks and
they became the Vault 7 documents. So
our whole lives are out there
potentially [music] for someone to use
against us and every country has these
capabilities. Listen, I spent 15 years
in the CIA. I love this country, but one
of the most important things in my life
is the issue of [music] ethics, which is
why I blew the whistle on the CIA's
torture program. Because my superiors
kept repeating that torture worked, but
besides being illegal, immoral,
unethical, it just wasn't true. And I
would let them send me to prison again
because it was the right thing to do. I
mean, we know that they were
experimenting on American citizens and
spreading diseases in American cities.
>> This is the stuff of movies.
>> It is. And because you've been in this
world that [music] the average person
really has no idea about, I have to ask
you, who do you think is the real
adversary of the West, what are you most
concerned about in the world at the
moment? And what about everything that's
going on with Trump in Venezuela and
Greenland? And then, do you think
Jeffrey Epstein was a spy?
>> Yes.
>> Who do you think he was working for?
[music]
>> The Israelis.
>> Why?
Listen, my my team gave me a script that
they asked me to read, but I'm just
going to ask you um in the nicest way I
possibly can. Thank you first and
foremost for choosing to subscribe to
this channel. It is um it's been one of
the most incredible crazy years of my
life. I never could have imagined. I had
so many dreams in my life, but this was
not one of them. And the very fact that
these conversations have resonated with
you and you've given me so much feedback
is something I will always be
appreciative of. And I almost carry away
a sort of burden of uh responsibility to
pay you back. And the favor I would like
to ask from you today is to subscribe to
the channel if you um would be so
obliged. It's completely free to do
that. Roughly about 47% of you that
listen to this channel frequently
currently don't subscribe to this
channel. So if you're one of those
people, please come and join us. Hit the
subscribe button. It's the single free
thing you can do to make this channel
better. And every subscriber sort of
pays into this show and allows us to do
things bigger and better and to push
ourselves even more. And I will not let
you down if you hit the subscribe
button. I promise you. And if I do,
please do unsubscribe, but I promise I
won't. Thank you.
>> [music]
>> John Kuryoku, the world knows your name.
Why? [laughter]
[gasps]
Why does the world know your name?
>> I can give you two answers.
One, I'm proud to say that I blew the
whistle on the CIA's torture program in
a nationally televised interview with
ABC News. The second reason is
I blew the whistle a long time ago and
just in the past 18 months, I seem to
have hit some sort of YouTube algorithm
sweet spot and all of a sudden my
message is getting out there. And you
went to prison for blowing the whistle.
>> I did and I would do it again tomorrow.
I really would. You know, I was I was
giving an interview to the BBC the day
after I got out of prison. They were the
first uh outlet to ask for an interview.
And so I gladly gave it to them. And the
interviewer said
kind of perturbedly,
"You're not showing any remorse or
contrition." And I said, "No, I'm not
remorseful. I'm not contrite. I would do
it again. I would let them send me to
prison again because it was the right
thing to do."
>> And you were a spy in the CIA.
>> Yeah. I was quite an accomplished spy in
the CIA. I spent 15 years in the CIA.
The first half of my career was in
analysis and uh and I got bored,
frankly. And so I made an unusual at the
time change to counterterrorism
operations. And then I was the chief of
CIA counterterrorism operations in
Pakistan after the 9/11 attacks.
>> And if I'd never heard about the CIA
before and I had never heard about your
role in the CIA before and I was a
16-year-old,
>> right?
>> How would you explain to me what you did
there? What your role was and what the
CIA is?
>> Sure. The CIA is an intelligence service
whose job it is at its most basic level
to recruit spies to steal secrets and to
analyze those secrets so that the
policymakers can make the best informed
policy. After 9/11, we were expecting an
attack, to use Osama bin Laden's words,
that would dwarf 911.
And so my job was to infiltrate al-Qaeda
by recruiting members of al-Qaeda
to tell us when and where that next
attack was going to come so that we
could disrupt it. We could
kill or capture the leadership and
destroy the organization.
>> And give me a range of the things that
you did during your time in the CIA just
for a very topline range of the types of
things you worked on. Oh, sure. Um, as
an analyst, it was actually quite
straightforward. Uh, we would write for
the president, the vice president, the
secretaries of state and defense, and
the national security adviser.
>> And who were the presidents during this
that time?
>> Uh, when I started, it was George HW
Bush, the father, and then it was Bill
Clinton, then George W. Bush. There are
several different publications. There's
the president's daily brief, which is
the most important. I covered Iraq the
entire time that I was in analysis from
well before most Americans had ever
heard of Iraq. I was told actually that
it was a training account because
nothing ever happened there. Nothing
ever changed. And then
Iraq invaded Kuwait. The next day I got
to the office early. I was 25
years old, 26 years old. And uh my boss
said, "Don't take your jacket off. We're
going to the White House." I had never
been to the White House before except as
a tourist. And so we got in a car, went
to the White House. We're ushered into
the Oval Office. It's the president, the
vice president, the national security
adviser, the director of the CIA, my
boss, and me. And then we all sit down.
The president tells us, "Sit down." We
sit down and the president says,"Well,
now what do we do?" And everybody turns
and looks at me and it took me a second
and I said, "Uh, yes." I said, "Mr.
President, as you know, Iraqi troops
crossed the border at 2:00 this morning.
They the royal family has uh has run
away to uh Saudi Arabia. They've named a
new occupation governor, etc., etc. Do
we know who that is?" I said, "Yes,
sir." I gave him the name and I said,
"Actually, he uh he's the co-founder of
the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine." The vice president shouts,
"Jesus Christ." And then the president
says, "Gentlemen, thank you. Thank you.
We'll take it from here." And I remember
saying to myself, "My friends would
never believe in a thousand years what I
was doing right now. They wouldn't even
believe me if I told them." That's what
an analyst does. When I switched to
operations again, the the job was very
straightforward. It was to recruit spies
to steal secrets. But then if you're
involved in counterterrorism operations,
there are a lot of extras that you have
to be trained in. So you go through the
normal spy training. This is how you
ingratiate yourself. It's something
called the asset acquisition cycle.
Spot, assess, develop, recruit. I meet
you at a cocktail party. You seem like a
nice guy. I introduce myself.
I ask, "Uh, so what do you do for a
living?" Well, if you tell me you manage
a shoe store, I'm going to say, "Well,
it was very nice meeting you." And I'm
going to go on to the next guy. But if
you tell me you work at the port, you
work in the Ministry of Defense, you
work in the Chinese embassy,
I'm going to invite you to lunch. I've
spotted you. I've assessed you. And my
assessment is I'd like to get to know
you. Then I begin to develop you. I'll
give you an example. I was in Pakistan.
I got a tip that uh that al-Qaeda, a
group of mid-level al-Qaeda fighters was
meeting every single day in a coffee
shop at 10:00 in the morning. My Arabic
was absolutely flawless at the time. And
so I had a bushy beard that I grew for
operational reasons.
>> Can I hear some of your Arabic?
>> Yeah. Uh,
it's nice to meet you. Or
Alhamdulillah.
Uh, so I uh I bought an Arabic newspaper
and I went to the coffee shop and I just
sat there and sure enough at 10:00 the
four of them came in. One of them looked
at me and I looked at him and that was
it. We made eye contact. I did that for
a week.
The second week I was there drinking my
coffee, sitting with my Arabic
newspaper, and the one who had looked at
me the week before, he nodded. So I
nodded back. That was it. No
communication otherwise. The third week,
I'm a regular now. He recognizes me.
So he says to me, I said, "May peace be
upon you." And I say, "And upon you
peace." One day he came in alone and I
said, "Please have a seat. Sit with me.
No sense in you sitting alone and me
sitting alone." So he sat down. We
started talking. And um I asked him how
long he had been in Pakistan. He said,
"Oh, I've been here for 5 years. I was
in Afghanistan. I was making jihad
against the Americans." And I said, "Oh,
that must have been hell on earth." He
said, "Oh." He said that the bombing of
Tora Bora was hideous. That was the word
that he used. It was hideous. And I
said, "And what about your family? How's
your family?" He said, "My wife and and
son and daughter are in Cairo. I've
never met my son." He was born just
after I left to make jihad. I said, "I'm
so sorry." And he said, "Yes, I'm I'm
lonely and I I want to go home." And we
continued this relationship.
And finally, I said to him, "Let me take
you to dinner. let's get out of the
coffee shop. The truth was I didn't want
one of his friends to walk in and see
us. So, we went to a restaurant for
dinner and I said, "Listen,
there's something that I haven't been
truthful with you about.
I'm not Lebanese."
And I said, "Actually, I'm American.
Are you okay with that?"
And he says, "I think so." I said,
'Well, actually,
I'm a CIA officer.
And he says, ' Okay.' So, he didn't run
screaming from the room or pull a gun or
anything. And he said,
"Why do you want me? Why do you want to
talk to me?" I said, "Actually, you have
access to something that I want." It was
very specific. And I told him what it
was. And he says, "And what will you do
for me?" And I said, "Anything your
heart desires."
And he said, "I want to go home."
I said, "I can do that." And
>> you wanted information presumably.
>> I wanted information, very specific
information,
>> which you can't share.
>> No. I'll go right back to prison. So,
uh, [laughter]
so um, we got him a passport. I bought
him a first class ticket and I took him
to the airport, gave him some cash to
get himself started again. And I said,
"Before you go, I have to ask you, why
did you agree to give me this
information? I mean, presumably I'm the
enemy." And he said, "I've been here 5
years, and you're the first person who
ever asked me about my family."
So I said, "Best of luck. Never saw him
again.
That's the job.
>> I have to ask you,
>> take me on the journey of you being a
young man
>> in West Pennsylvania,
>> right?
>> To becoming a spy. What happened?
Because I'll be I'll be honest. You
know, I don't really know what my
perception of spies is, but it's not
you.
>> That's good.
>> That's good. See, because I kind of work
under the radar. M so that's really
interesting is I [laughter] there's
there's so many um once you learn about
spies as a podcast like so if you go
back a couple of years and someone had
told me about spies I wouldn't have
believed them I wouldn't have believed
that these things actually happened
>> you know you hear about people going
undercover
>> and going to other countries and getting
secrets and and all of these things
>> and it's not until you meet the people
that said
yes that's me I used to do that that
you're sort you have this paradigm shift
in your mind and you go, "Oh my god,
what else might be going on?"
>> Right?
>> Because I lived in this world probably
up until the age of, I don't know, 30
years old where I kind of just assume
things are what they are
>> like as I see them. And then, you know,
you start to discover that there's
layers of secrecy. Nations are against
each other. They're doing all of these
covert operations. And even like as a
podcaster now, I have moments where I go
like, "How do I know that you're not
you're not here to steal secrets from
me?"
>> Right? So, you know what's funny? When I
had Andre Bustamante on the show, the
comment sections are always the same.
They're always like, "Once a CIA spy,
always a CIA spy."
>> I hate when people say that. It's so
intellectually lazy.
>> But I just I do wonder and I go, "Okay,
here's a super conspiracy theory. What
if the CIA have made spies do really
well in the YouTube algorithm so that
all of us as long form podcasters invite
them on and then they
>> You know what? I would agree with that.
I would have agreed with that a year ago
because Andrew Bamante has really made a
handsome living out of selling his
experience and he's on every podcast.
>> Yeah.
>> But I am the most anti-CIA former CIA
person that's out there.
>> But wouldn't that be the perfect CIA
agent?
>> I mean, if if I weren't constantly
criticizing the CIA as a as a an
organization that's just out of control.
Do you think the CIA are have a strategy
for podcasters and for podcasting?
>> I think yes, now they do. It took them a
little while to to get current, but just
like they over time developed a strategy
with Hollywood,
sure they're developing a strategy with
podcasters. You know, it was only in the
last 10 years that the CIA opened a
branch within the Office of Public
Affairs whose job it is solely to liers
with Hollywood studios. The FBI's been
doing this since the since the 40s. And
the goal is that everything that comes
out of Hollywood should be pro-CIA.
And you know, we end up with with Zero
Dark 30 and you know, the recruit and
the CIA, Argo, the CIA is always the
hero in these movies. If you were still
at the CIA now and your job was to in
infiltrate and
uh use creators or podcasters as an
asset for the CIA's objectives, how
might you design that plan? If we were
just hypothesizing,
you would have to have
a goal
that would be specific enough that you
could actually track the progress to it.
So, you can't just say, "Well, I'm going
to pay this podcaster x amount of money,
and we're going to we're going to we're
going to do something with the algorithm
to make him vastly popular among
men, you know, 18 to 30, let's say.
There's got to be more to it than that.
It has to be a message. You've got to be
able to get a specific, well-honed
message out there. And the message can
be anything.
It could be, you know, love the CIA,
we're the good guys. It could be support
the overthrow of the Iranian government.
It could be, you know, any criticism of
Benjamin Netanyahu is anti-semitism.
It could be anything you want it to be.
You just have to make sure that it's
repeated enough. See, this was the
danger with the torture program. This is
one of the very important reasons that I
went public when I did because my
colleagues, my superiors at the CIA kept
repeating this lie over and over and
over again that torture worked and that
torture got us information that saved
American lives. And that was just simply
not true. It was a lie. Besides being
illegal, immoral, unethical, it just
wasn't true. And so I decided before we
go down this road anymore, I'm going to
go public.
>> So can you take me back then? We got a
little bit sidetracked there, but
>> Sure.
>> John, how did you come to be a CIA spy?
>> When I was 9 years old, I told my
parents that I wanted to be a spy when I
grew up. it came time to apply for
college and I only applied at one
university, George Washington University
in Washington because it was two blocks
from the White House and it was one of
only three schools in America that
offered a Middle Eastern studies
program. I was one of only four people
in that brand new Middle Eastern studies
program. I stayed for a master's degree
in legislative affairs with a focus on
foreign policy analysis. I was taking a
class in that program called the
psychology of leadership. It was taught
by an eminent psychiatrist named Dr.
Gerald Post and he gave us an assignment
one uh one day where we had to shadow
our bosses. We had to just follow our
bosses for a week.
>> Your bosses?
>> Yeah. I worked at a labor union called
the United Food and Commercial Workers
Union. And so we were just supposed to
follow our boss around for a week and
then write a psychological profile. I
used dozens of, you know, footnotes from
psychological, you know, psychology
texts. And I ended up saying that he was
a sociopath with psychopathic and
possibly violent tendencies. And, you
know, I had these citations.
I passed the paper in. Dr. Post gives it
back to me a week later, gave me an A,
and then he wrote, "Please see me after
class." So I went up to him after the
class and I said, "Dr. Post, you wanted
to see me." He says, "Come to my
office." So we went down there. He
closed the door and he says, "Listen,
I'm not really a professor here. I'm a
CIA officer undercover as a professor
here, and I'm looking for people who
would fit into the CIA's culture. I
think you would fit into the CIA's
culture. Would you like to be a spy?"
And I said, "Yes,
I would." He picked up the phone and
called the number and he said, "Bob,
this is Jerry. I've got a good one for
you. Do you have some time?" And he
said, "Sure." He writes an address on a
scrap of paper. And he says, "Be at this
address in 20 minutes." It was only one
subway stop away. So I jumped on the
metro. I went to Rosland, Virginia, just
across the river. I had to buzz to be
led in. And a woman opens the door. She
says, "Are you here for Bob?" And I
said, "Yes." She says, "Come on in."
I'm sitting there for a moment and then
this like 6 foot6, 350 lb giant barrels
out of his office and he says, "John
Bob, how the hell are you? I want you to
be at the George Washington University
Medical School Saturday morning at 8:00.
We've got some tests for you." I said,
"Okay." And then we shook hands and I
left. So, Saturday morning, I went to
the GW Medical School auditorium. There
were like, I don't know, 200 people
there and they hand us a test. My wife
picked me up. She said, "How did you
do?" I said, "I have no idea."
>> Does your wife at this point know that
you were applying for the CIA?
>> Yes. And that was going to be pretty
much the extent of what she ended up
knowing cuz once I got in,
>> but you were allowed to tell her.
>> I was not allowed to tell her. No. So,
you told her anyway?
>> Yeah. When I first applied, they said,
"Listen, don't tell anybody because you
may go undercover. You may go under deep
cover, and we can't have people out
there who know that you're a CIA
officer."
>> Presumably, the CIA are smart enough to
be able to check if you've told her.
>> Yeah. And they ask you on the polygraph,
"Did you tell her?" Really?
>> And I said, "Yeah, I told her. She's my
wife. What am I going to do?" You know,
but it got to the point where I'd get
home from a day where, you know, I broke
into some guy's house and and planted a
camera on a bug and I'd get home and
she'd say, "How was your day?" I'd say,
"Great. What'd you do?" Not a darn
thing. And then my phone would ring at,
you know, midnight and a guy would say,
"The rain in Spain falls mainly in the
plane." And I'd say, "Uh, Marzy Oats and
Dozy Oats and Little Lambs Ivy." And
that means meet me at the yacht club
parking lot in three hours.
And then I'd leave. She's she would say,
"Where where are you going? It's
midnight. I got to work." So I'd leave.
I'd do my meeting. I'd come home 6:00 in
the morning just in time to shower and
shave and get dressed to go to work. And
she would say, "What was her name?"
And I I remember this one terrible time.
That's what she said to me. What was her
name? The truth is, I had been sitting
in a garbage dumpster waiting for a guy
to drive by down the alley and throw a
bag of documents in. And I stunk of
garbage and I said to her, "Do I
seriously smell to you like I've been
with a woman?"
Seriously.
So, we ended up getting a divorce.
[laughter]
[gasps]
>> So, you do the assessment presumably.
you get in and then you do training.
>> He He called me like two weeks later,
Bob did, and he said, "You blew the
doors off those tests." I said, "Oh,
great. Okay." So, a month later, they
summoned me to headquarters,
and uh I was interviewed by the Office
of Neareastern Operations, the Office of
Near Eastern Analysis, and the Office of
Leadership Analysis. I was offered the
analysis job on the Iraq desk. And what
is the sum total of the training you
were given in the variety of different
roles that you had? Like how do they
train?
>> Good question. That's a good question
and the answer is vastly different
depending on where you start your
career.
>> So because I started mine in analysis,
the immediate training was in mastering
the CIA's writing style. So the most
important product that the CIA writes
every day is the PDB, the president's
daily brief,
>> and it tells the president what
>> what you think he needs to know.
>> Okay?
>> So for example, when the Iraqis began
moving to the to the Kuwaiti border,
we had this big debate. Are they going
to are they going to cross the border?
Yes or no? So I said, "Listen, why don't
I call the American defense attaches in
Baghdad and I'll just ask him to drive
down there and look and tell us what he
sees?" He drives down there, drives
back, he calls me, and he says,
"Literally, the entire Iraqi military is
on its way to the Kuwaiti border." So we
wrote a thing for the president saying
Iraq is going to invade Kuwait and it's
probably going to happen in the next 48
hours. And when when did the president
see that particular briefing?
>> At 7:00 a.m. the next morning.
>> Okay. And is there ever situations where
the president would get it? In the
middle of the night.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> And be told in the middle of the night
that
>> Yes. There there are these levels of
immediacy.
There's routine which is like who cares?
And then there is um priority which
means ah I'll get to it sometime today.
Then there's immediate which means you
should probably read it first.
But then there's flash,
which means, "Oh my god, something
terrible just happened. You should
probably wake the president." And then
there's critic, which means they're
coming over the embassy walls. We're at
war. Wake up the president. Scramble the
jets.
>> 911.
>> That's a critic.
[snorts]
[clears throat]
>> So going back to this question of your
training.
>> Yeah. What is it that the
CIA teach you about human nature and how
to use human nature to your advantage
that could be transferable to other
disciplines in life like business or
well this is going to sound not very
nice but it's it's real life it's
everyday life especially in in business
the CIA actively seeks to hire people
who have what they call sociopathic
tendencies.
Not sociopaths. Sociopaths have no
conscience. They'll just blow right
through a polygraph exam, but they're
impossible to corral. They're impossible
to to, you know, keep
under rain. Uh, and it's because they're
not able, their brains won't allow them
to feel regret or remorse. Now, in
business, most CEOs are sociopaths.
Most, not all, but most. Especially in
big companies, because they claw their
way to the top, usually on the backs of
the people around them. They don't feel
bad screwing the next guy to get that
next promotion.
The CIA wants people like that because
those are the people who are going to
break into a foreign embassy. A normal
person would not advocate breaking into
a foreign embassy. It's sovereign
territory of a foreign country. I would
I'd be glad to do it.
>> Why?
>> Because we're the good guys.
>> So, do you have sociopathic tendencies?
>> Absolutely.
>> And what are your sociopathic
tendencies?
>> My sociopathic tendency was to operate
in legal, moral, and ethical gray areas.
Specifically, that's what it was. I'm
really curious about what we can learn
about human nature from someone whose
job was to meet strangers and to get
them to basically sometimes to turn
against their own country.
>> Like I'm really interested in and I
think I think it's informative because
so many of us, you know, when we think
about what good leadership is or what
good sales man or womanship is,
>> um, it seems like there's transferables.
I guess for some people it's family. I
guess for some people it's something
else. that that that hook that you're
talking about, that thing that gets
them.
>> And the [clears throat] word that they
use at the CIA for the hook is a
vulnerability. And it's not really a
vulnerability in every case. Now,
95%
studies have been done about this
internally at the CIA. 95% of the people
who agree to become spies for us do it
for the money. Right? It's it's a simple
cash transaction. You give me money,
I'll give you secrets. 95%.
>> So you telling me that you think human
motivation is 95% driven by money?
>> Yes.
>> Really?
>> Yes. The rest was love and family,
um, ideology,
revenge, and excitement.
You're going to get a handful of people
who are hooked on James Bond movies, and
they will do it. I mean, you're going to
pay them anyway, but they will do it
just for the adrenaline rush.
>> It's interesting because when I look at
this list of things and I compare it to
business,
it I would say it's slightly different
from my experience of hiring people,
specifically of hiring people.
>> I tend to think that, you know, you
could one would ask themselves like why
would someone leave a company right now
like, I don't know, Open AI and go work
at a startup. They're going to get paid
way more at OpenAI. You've got these
this equity and these grants, but people
are on mass doing that. And even when I
think about the early days of Google,
people left the big conglomerates that
would pay them more. And they went and
worked for Larry and Sergey um getting
paid way less, right? but to be involved
in something small, scrappy, exciting,
>> and and so I and this is what what I
think about when I sit, you know,
probably I've had thousands of people in
my life now across my businesses, and
money is a factor, but it doesn't tend
to be the biggest factor. Mhm.
>> It tends to be, in my experience,
there's a particular hero's journey in
their mind that they want to be seen
through. They want to complete.
>> Uhhuh.
>> You know, there's a particular way that
they see themselves and they want to
fulfill that.
>> Oh, I could get that. I I work with a
with a very very tiny startup right now
called Ivy Cyber and uh it focuses on
privacy software. You know, things like,
you know, scrambling your data so it
can't be intercepted. that that sort of
thing. And
I've participated in a couple of pitches
to uh to angel investors
and they all say exactly the same thing
that you did.
>> And this is why I was confused when I
heard that money was 95%.
Because I I just think
especially in the work that I don't
know, especially in the work that you
do, I would assume
>> but look at it this way. I think this
would explain the discrepancy.
um you're comparing people who are
making a life
>> versus people who are betraying their
country.
>> True. And what's [snorts] interesting as
well is in those examples that you've
given, money is actually a proxy to be
able to take care of my family.
>> Mhm.
>> And to be able to, you know, fulfill my
ideology and maybe to get excitement and
revenge. Do you know what I'm saying? So
even that guy that wanted the plane
ticket so he could fly home. Yeah. He
could he could have the money could have
got him home if you just given him
>> the reason why he wanted to go home was
because his family
>> his family that was it.
>> What's the extent of the things that the
CIA can get as a incentive for someone
to turn against their nation to give
secrets?
>> Quite literally anything you can
imagine.
>> Even if it's against the law.
>> Well, they're not going to get like
drugs or you know child prostitutes or
no not stuff like that. What if someone
said, "I want you to
um [snorts]
get me a a green card."
>> Oh, yeah, sure.
>> What if they said,
>> "If the information is good enough, not
a problem."
>> What if they said, "I want you to I've
got this tax bill. I want you to make
the tax bill go away."
>> Okay. Give me Give me the plans to that
Russian tank. We'll make it happen.
>> What if it was an American? Would they
speak to the IRS here and just get rid
of it?
>> Oh, if it was an American citizen, you
mean? Yeah.
>> Uh, no.
>> But why?
>> No.
We normally don't recruit American
citizens. By law, the CIA can't operate
domestically. Although they have offices
all over the country. Those offices are
generally to to debrief business
leaders, seauite officers who travel to
denied areas. For example, if if you
take a trip to North Korea, let's say,
I'm going to call you and I'm going to
say, "You don't know me, but I'm from
the CIA and I understand you just went
to North Korea and I was wondering if I
could come over to your office for an
hour and just ask you about your trip."
99.99%
are going to say yes because they're
patriots. So, I go to your office, I
give you my business card, and we just
chat about, you know, your impressions
of the place and that kind of thing.
>> Just to close off on this point, are
there any skills that the CIA taught you
or trained you in that you think are
transferable for business that we
haven't talked about?
>> They they trained us also in lying and
lie detection. That was actually quite
important. You know, you at the CIA,
you're you're a trained liar. And this
is why the divorce rate is so high. It's
the highest divorce rate of any uh
entity in in the US government. It's
it's upwards of 80%.
>> Trained to lie. How do they train you to
lie?
>> Hi, my name is Dave Phillips. Um I work
for an import export company.
>> But do they teach you the art of lying?
>> Oh yeah.
>> And what is the art?
>> You know, it's it's hard to like it's
hard to pin down. You just sort of have
to have it. You have to have that
ability. But the hard part is you have
to keep the lies straight. I'll give you
another example. I've never told this
story before.
I was asked by headquarters. I was
overseas in the Middle East and I was
asked by headquarters to target one
specific officer of this foreign
country.
>> Target?
>> Yeah. Hi, how are you? Oh, we've never
met. I'm John. So nice to meet you.
>> Let me take you to lunch.
he had access to to information that we
really needed. Uh so they told me to
accidentally bump into him. So I
surveiled him for a week and he was
single and on Saturday morning he went
to a coffee shop. So I go into the
coffee shop and I'm looking at him and
he's looking at me and I said, "I know
you, Ministry of Foreign Affairs." He
said, "Yes. Do I know you?" I said, "I
am John from the American Embassy." "Oh,
nice to nice to see you." I said, 'Hey,
good to see you, too. You live in the
area? Yes, I do. I said, 'Oh, so do I. I
didn't. I lived like across town. Oh,
fancy meeting you here at this coffee
shop. I come here all the time. Do you?
Yeah, he says. I come here all the time.
Why don't you have a seat? He says. So,
I sit down. At the end of the
conversation, I go back to the embassy
and I read a cable and I said, he's gay.
I'm 100% sure he's gay. So, then we
started this conversation, headquarters
and I, how can we use that to our
benefit?
>> Did he have a wife?
>> No. He was single,
>> which was unusual at his age.
>> How did you know he was gay?
>> Oh, I I just It was a vibe. [laughter]
>> Okay.
>> So,
headquarters says,
"We want you to pretend that you're
gay." I said, "Oh, come on, you guys.
No, we really need the information. You
got to pretend that you're gay." I said,
"Okay, I'll do it. I'll do it for Uncle
Sam."
So, I call him and I said, "Hey, I have
two tickets to this show and I was
hoping maybe you'd be free. Maybe we'll
grab some sushi afterwards."
He said, "Yeah, I'd love to." So, we go
to the show. He thoroughly enjoyed it.
And we go for sushi afterwards.
And then we go out again and he says,
"Why don't you come over to my place
some night and I'll I'll make dinner." I
said, "Great." So, I go over to his
place. made a lovely dinner and then I
thought, well, I have to invite him to
my place. So, I told my wife, you're
going to have to like get out. So, she
left. I made dinner. I removed all the
pictures of us together. And we had just
gotten married. So, we had like our
wedding picture up and everything.
At the dinner,
he leaned in to kiss me and I
instinctively backed off and he said,
"Oh my god, I'm sorry. I thought you're
gay." And I said, "Oh, no. I I am gay.
I'm I'm I'm not into hairy guys.
And he's like, "Oh,
okay." I said, "I'm sorry. I think
you're great, but I'm I'm not feeling
it."
>> You didn't kiss him?
>> No. [laughter]
So, we remained friends and in the end,
he gave me the information because we
were friends. And then he he opened up.
He's like, "I can't tell anybody I'm
gay. They suspect I am." and they passed
me over for promotion. And my boss asked
me, "Is there something in your personal
life that you're not telling me? He
knows I'm gay." I said, "Listen, your
culture is backwards. Don't tell them
you're gay. Just say that you've just
never met the right woman." And
inshallah, the right woman is coming,
you know, in your life at some point.
And I actually Googled him a couple of
years ago, and he did become an
ambassador finally.
>> And he's still working in that country
now.
>> Mhm. Does [clears throat] that kind of
stuff happen a lot in the CIA where you
have to take one for the team?
>> Yes.
>> Have you ever taken one for the team?
>> No. You
>> I'm not sure you're telling the truth.
>> Well, I it came close.
>> When did it come close?
>> So, I was overseas. I was a brand new
operations officer
and there was a woman in this foreign
intelligence service who was the ugliest
woman I've ever seen in my life.
like you want to avert your eyes like
she came off the side of Notradam.
She was a, you know, a stone gargoyle
with a giant mole right here with a
giant hair coming out of it. That kind
of ugly.
So,
so I took her to lunch and she was very
nice. And then I thought I did something
kind of gutsy by C CIA standards because
it was early on in our relationship. I
invited her to go to lunch on a
Saturday. Now, as a rule, the people in
this country were not allowed to
socialize with us privately. It had to
be like their whole office, you know, or
several of them together. So, I asked
her just to meet me privately for lunch
on Saturday. Don't tell anybody.
>> So, she was someone from the Middle
East.
>> Yes. And she agreed. And I was like, "Oh
my god, she said yes." And I ran back to
the office. I was like, she said yes to
a lunch on Saturday alone. And my boss
says, "Okay, here's what I want you to
do. I want you to [__] her." And I said,
"What?" I said, "Have you ever seen
her?" And he said, "I know, but we're
the good guys and you're going to have
to take one for the team." And I go, "Oh
my god." I said, I go,
"Okay, I'll do it." And he says, "No,
you're not going to [__] We don't do
that." I said, "I don't know. Oh, I just
started this. I've never been an
operations guy before. How am I supposed
to know? He said, "Come on." He said,
"Just develop her like a normal person.
You don't have to [__] her." I said, "Oh
my god, you almost gave me a heart
attack."
>> But they they might not be mad if you
did.
>> So long as I reported it and I got the
recruitment out of him.
>> It wasn't illegal to act, you know,
sleep with assets.
>> Yeah, you're not supposed to sleep with
assets. It has happened to a couple
people I know and um they end up being
pulled back to the United States. You
have to sit in the penalty box if you do
that. You're not supposed to do that.
But yeah, it happens sometime.
>> So sextortion isn't a real thing.
>> It can be. We don't.
[sighs] When I first got hired, one of
the old-timers told me the story of
about an ayatollah that they were trying
to recruit. And they set this ayatollah
up with a prostitute. And it was he had
sex with this prostitute in a room where
they had cameras everywhere. And so they
bumped him afterwards. They bumped into
him and said, "Hey, we have all these
pictures." And they laid out the
pictures of him, you know, butt naked
with this prostitute. And he said,
"Yeah,
give me that one, an 8 by10. Give me two
5x7s of that one. How about some wallet
size for this?" He's like, "Get out of
here." and he said, "You know, after
that, we just stop doing that. It
doesn't work. When you recruit somebody,
you really do need the relationship to
be based on mutual trust,
>> not coercion or pressure.
>> Threatening somebody, it's it's not
going to result in a productive
relationship. The Russians do it, the
Israelis do it, but most intelligence
services around the world don't."
because you've been in this world,
what is it that you know about the
nature of the reality that we all live
in that the average person really has no
idea about?
>> Do you know what I mean?
>> Yeah.
>> Because, you know, going back to what I
said earlier, 3 years ago, before I
started doing all this podcast stuff and
started interviewing people that had
been involved in spy work and the CIA
and all this, I was kind of like naive
to the way that the world worked. I
thought I thought if I have a password
on my device, my device is secure. And I
thought that you know,
>> right? All these kind of just simple
things, but what is it that you know
about the nature of reality that most
people don't?
>> Well, I I guess it's a couple of things.
You know, John Kennedy called the CIA
the best and the brightest,
and we're not. We're just average
people,
and we're not as smart as we think we
are. We're not as worldly as we think we
are. We've pretty much missed every
major global development since 1947.
From the, you know, the rise of the
Berlin Wall to the fall of the Berlin
Wall to the fall of the Soviet Union to
the Suez crisis and the Iran hostage
crisis and 9/11 and everything else. We
missed it.
We're really good at day-to-day, you
know, updates for the president. We're
really good at recruiting minor hangers
on around terrorist groups, but the the
big picture items were just not good at
it. Number one. Number two,
until 9/11, it was against the law, like
in stone, to spy on Americans.
And now billions of dollars are spent
spying on Americans. Whether it's NSA or
CIA or FBI or intelligence community
contractors,
nothing is secret. Nothing. And to make
matters worse,
let's say maybe you did do something
that law enforcement might be interested
in. They don't need a warrant anymore.
They don't need to go to a judge and
say, "Well, we have reason to believe,
you know, blah, blah, blah." All they
have to do is just buy your metadata
because it's for sale. Just go to the go
to the carrier. Just buy it. They don't
need a judge's order to do that. It's
all out there. We've made all we've made
ourselves vulnerable. All of our lives
are out there, whether it's on Facebook
or X or Insta or whatever.
If they really want to get you, they're
going to get you. Which reminds me of a
book written by Dr. Harvey Silverglate.
He's a professor of law at Harvard and
it's called Three Felonies a Day. And he
argues in this book that we are so
overcriminalized,
so overregulated in this country that
the average American on the average day
going about his or her normal business
commits three felonies
every day.
You may not mean to, but you do. Every
day. So if they decide they want you,
they don't like your politics, they can
get your metadata, they can go through
that metadata, find crimes that they can
charge you with and ruin your life. And
there's nothing you can do to protect
yourself.
>> To some extent, they did that to you.
>> Yeah, they did. They did that to me
>> because you spoke out about a torture
program
>> that [clears throat] was happening in
the CIA.
>> Yeah. John Brennan wrote a letter to
Eric Holder and said, "Charge him with
espionage
and Holder wrote back." Eric Holder was
the attorney general. Holder wrote back
and said, "My people don't think he
committed espionage." And John Brennan
wrote back to Holder and said, "Charge
him anyway and make him defend himself."
So they arrested me, charged me with
five felonies, including three counts of
espionage. Espionage can be a death
penalty case. Charged me with espionage.
They waited until I went bankrupt 10
months later with $2 million in legal
fees and then they dropped the espionage
charges and they said, "We can read the
espionage charges or you can take a plea
to this lesser charge."
What are you going to do?
Roll the dice knowing that the
government wins 98.2% of its cases
according to ProPublica
or do you just take the deal and make it
go away? And that's what I did. And you
got roughly two years in jail.
>> Yeah. I uh ended up doing 23 months.
>> Mhm.
>> And for anyone that doesn't know, this
was because at some point in your
career, you spoke out about torture
programs that were happening in
Guantanamo Bay and and elsewhere.
>> Yeah. And at secret prisons that the CIA
had set up around the world, right?
>> And going back up to the top of my
question here, I I'm really trying to
speak to Jane Dave who's listening to
this right now. Sure. They have a normal
life. Yep.
>> They're not really aware that spies
exist and the extent of the work they
do. They kind of assume that everything
they see and people they interact with
are normal and they think their devices
and everything else is secure. What
message do you have for them? A word of
warning or caution about the reality?
>> Yeah, that's a good question. Elliot
Spitzer, the former um governor of New
York, when he was attorney general of
New York, he said,
"Don't nod when you can motion.
Don't speak when you can nod, and don't
ever put anything in a text message."
At the CIA on our very first day, they
told us not to ever say or do anything
that we would be ashamed to see on the
front page of the Washington Post. I
took that seriously. The truth of the
matter is because of technology the way
it is today, our whole lives are out
there potentially for someone to see,
for someone to use against us.
So be careful what you say, be careful
what you write. even ingest because it
can be taken out of context to target
you.
>> And what about digital security? You
talked about the fact that it's possible
for these these forces and not just the
US, but other countries to be able to
hack and crack your devices and see
anything on your devices. I think we all
go around assuming that our devices are
secure.
>> They're not secure at all. At all. It's
not just, you know, NSA, CIA, FBI that
you have to worry about. It's the
British, the French, the Germans, the
Canadians, the Australians, the New
Zealanders,
the Russians, the Chinese, the Israelis,
the Iranians.
I mean, everybody has these
capabilities. Everybody.
So, you've got to be very, very careful.
>> Capabilities to do what?
>> To intercept communications.
>> I've heard you say that they can hack
car systems. They could so they could
theoretically hack into my car.
>> Yes, we know that from uh Wikileaks.
There was something in 2017 called the
Vault 7 revelations. there was a a CIA
software engineer who was disgruntled
and instead of going to the Russians or
the Chinese,
he went to Wikileaks and he downloaded
thousands, tens of thousands of pages of
documents classified above top secret
and they became what Wikileaks called
the Vault 7 documents. So they included
things like the CIA for example will
hack into let's say the Iranian Ministry
of Interior computer system but they'll
leave little electronic clues all
written in cerillic.
>> Cerillic as well.
>> The cerillic is the is the alphabet the
Russian alphabet. Okay. Yep.
uh or they can take control of your
smart TV remotely and they can make the
speaker turn into a a microphone. So
even though the TV is off,
it can still hear everything that's
being said in the room and broadcast
back to the CIA.
>> Can they do that with devices? Do they
>> Oh, they could do that. When I first got
hired, they were able to do that.
>> So they could be doing that right now
with my
>> Oh, totally. My opinion.
>> Absolutely. Yes, that's old technology.
And then the thing about the car, this
was revoly. They can take control again
remotely of a car's computer system in
order to
well, I mean, in order to to kill you,
>> crash the car.
>> Crash the car. Take it off a bridge.
Take it into a tree. Sure.
>> Do you know something I've noticed? Most
commercial teams aren't tested by their
targets. They're tested by the weight of
the admin that comes with every client.
All the follow-ups, all the meetings,
all the notes, the timelines that never
ever stop. These were a constant source
of friction in my commercial team until
I introduced our sponsor, Pipe Drive. If
you're not familiar, Pipe Drive is a
simple but powerful sales CRM that gives
you visibility on any deals through a
sales pipeline. It also automates a lot
of the tedious, repetitive, and
timeconuming tasks that come with the
sales process. I've used it across my
investments for almost a decade now,
even when I was at Social Chain. And
it's so effective in part because it's
customizable. We've been able to tailor
it for different teams depending on how
they work. Pipe Drive also scales with
your business and you can also link it
to over 500 different apps. It is hands
down my favorite CRM tool. Try it right
now for free for 30 days. No credit card
or payment required. Just using my link
below or you can go to piperive.com/ceo
to get started. That's
pipedive.com/ceeo.
So many of us are pursuing passive forms
of income and to build side businesses
in order to help us cover our bills. And
that opportunity is here with our
sponsor Stan, a business that I co-own.
It is the platform that can help you
take full advantage of your own
financial situation. Stan enables you to
work for yourself. It makes selling
digital products, courses, memberships,
and more simple products more scalable
and easier to do. You can turn your
ideas into income and get the support to
grow whatever you're building. And we've
just launched Dare to Dream. It's for
those who are ready to make the shift
from thinking to building, from planning
to actually doing the thing. It's about
seeing that dream in your head and
knowing exactly what it takes to bring
it to life. Enter to win $100,000 for
your dream. All you have to do is share
what it is. Learn more at
daretodream.stan.store.
>> I've heard you talk about sleeper agents
before.
>> Yes.
>> What is the What is a sleeper agent?
Yeah, the Russians are very good with
sleeper agents. We Americans don't have
no no other country that we know of uses
sleeper agents. A sleeper agent is
someone who is taken virtually from
birth and trained to be of another
nationality. For example, let's say
you're born in Russia
and from the age of, you know, two, they
take you from your family with your
family's acquiescence and they take you
to an Americanstyle town that they've
built out in the hinterland in Russia.
And they teach you to speak English with
an American accent. You watch American
TV shows. You watch American movies. You
eat American food. You get an American
style education.
So, I have no idea that you're not
American. You speak English just like I
do. You know, all the same, you know,
social references that I make. You
follow the Philadelphia Eagles, you
know, or or the, you know, San Francisco
49ers or whatever.
and then they send you to the United
States on a on a fake with a fake ID.
What they'll do is they'll go through I
was born in 1964. So, they'll go through
death records from 1964 and they'll look
for for deaths where the person was only
a day or two old
and they'll take that name and the birth
date and they'll get a social security
card with the birth date and then
they'll use the social security card to
get you a passport, an American
passport. So, you come here on your
American passport, everything's legit.
Now, your name is, you know, Bob Smith,
which was really that baby's name that
died. and you get a job, let's say, as a
travel agent,
and you may work as a travel agent for
20 years
and never hear from them,
but then they'll activate you and
they'll say, "We want you to go take
care of this target over here.
>> Kill him."
>> Yeah. Or, "We want you to get a job at
the defense department and give us
everything that you that you can steal."
Whatever. There's a woman in my
neighborhood who was outed as a sleeper
about a year ago. She was an elementary
school teacher and they grabbed her and
they ended up trading her back to the
Russians for two Americans. So, they're
they're out there. I I interviewed a a
sleeper, a former sleeper on my own
podcast a couple of weeks ago. He was
from the East German Intelligence
Service and he was raised as an American
and sent to New York.
He got a job, I forget, doing what, like
restaurant supply company or something
like that. And he got married and he had
a daughter. and he told me, "As soon as
I looked at her face the day she was
born, I realized this life wasn't for me
anymore."
So they
sent him an activation. What they do is
they'll send you a radio message and he
didn't respond to it. And [snorts] he
told me he was on the subway one day.
He's just standing there holding the
strap and this guy came up to him and
the guy grabs the strap next to him and
whispers in his ear, "If you don't
report back, I have to kill you."
And so he ran straight to the FBI field
office in New York and he said, "I'm an
East German sleeper and I want to turn
myself in." And he became a prolific
source for the FBI.
>> So he was
taken as a young person.
>> Yes. What was his story?
>> Yeah. Taken as a young person, sent to
Russia to become American.
>> They set him up with this phony
identity.
>> And then after he had gone through all
the training, he came over here young.
He was like 20 or 22. And uh and did
this for 25 years.
And then he said as soon as his daughter
was born, he was like, "Wow, this is
what life is for, not being a sleeper."
Do you think the average person
listening to this conversation right now
is interacting in their life at this
exact moment in time with someone who is
involved in espionage, spying, the CIA
or some international
equivalent? Probably not
because
they're mostly focused. Foreign
intelligence officers are going to be
spread out all over America. If if if a
listener of this podcast is working in a
defense company, a defense contractor
anywhere in America, then my answer is
yes. Yes, you're probably encountering
espionage of some sort or somebody
committing espionage, whether it's
Russian, Chinese, or Israeli. They're
the three biggest ones that go after us.
um in Washington.
I mean, foreign spies there there could
be as many as 10,000 in Washington. I
remember my first wife um she was
teaching ballet at a small private
school and one of the uh the students
there, they were all like four, five,
and six years old. One of the students
there, her father was a Belgian
diplomat. And so we would sit and talk
and oh, aren't the kids talented? And
oh, this is so much fun. They look so
cute in their little tutus. And then I
went to work one day and as I was
walking in, he was walking in and I
said, "Oh, come on, Peter." And he's
like, "You know, I thought you were a
spy." And I said, "I actually didn't
think you were a spy." He was just going
for a liaison meeting.
We had a good chuckle about it. And I
said, "Listen, don't tell anybody."
Right. Right. Right. Right. Sorry.
So, I'm trying to figure out how many
how many spies do you think there are in
the United States? If you think about
>> foreign spies,
>> foreign spies, domestic spies, people
that are basically undercover,
>> including Americans, you mean?
>> Including Americans.
>> The number of CIA employees is
classified. The number of CIA employees
undercover is actually even more highly
classified. I can give you a guesstimate
>> but also you know Russia, China.
>> Yeah. 50 to 60,000 altogether.
>> 50 to 60,000 in the United States.
>> Mhm.
>> So by a couple of degrees of separation
if you know 100 people.
>> Yeah. You're probably going to know one.
>> Sure.
>> You said there's probably about 50,000
in the United States. So, I've just done
some quick math on my notepad here,
which means that in order to know one,
you'd need to meet 6,600 people.
>> Okay.
>> Because the US population is roughly 330
million people.
>> That's right.
>> And I and then I did some other maths
and did some research and I asked um the
question I was trying to figure out is
how many people does the average person
meet a year?
>> And it's roughly about 3 to 10,000
people. So theoretically,
>> so the chances are good
>> every year
statistically,
according to my napkin math, you're
meeting one of these undercover
[laughter]
spies.
One a year.
>> There it is.
>> Now, that number I gave you is I'm
lumping like all CIA people and all
foreign intelligence officers in the
United States.
>> Interesting. But again, if you work for
an American defense company, Northrup,
Grumman, Lockheed Martin, Boeing, any of
them, your chances of encountering a
foreign intelligence officer are even
money.
>> Can't you, as a spy with the United
States, ask the United States to give
you loads of money? Like, can't you say,
"You really want me to go do that? Can I
have a million dollars?"
>> Because you're giving you're potentially
giving away a lot of money to other
>> Oh my god. giving away like unlimited
amounts of money
>> cuz your budget when you were a spy. How
much was it
>> after 911? It was unlimited.
>> What does that mean? It means you can
basically give away as much money as you
need to.
>> If I approach somebody and he says I can
give you
this terrorist. I want 10 million. I'm
like done.
>> What was the most you ever gave in?
>> 10 million.
>> You gave someone 10 million for what?
>> Abu Zabeda.
>> Who's Abu Zabeda? We believed that Abu
Zuba was the number three in al-Qaeda.
He wasn't the number three, but he was a
very bad guy. I led the raids that
captured Abu Zuba in Pakistan, Fisalabad
Pakistan in March of 2002.
And um
the State Department had a $10 million
reward. We ended up giving the 10
million to the Pakistani intelligence
service. It wasn't
>> a person
>> a person. It was just really great
analysis that led us to him. But there
were others in the so-called war on
terror
who
got more than 10 million and got it like
within 24 hours.
>> Individuals.
>> How much?
>> One got 25 million.
>> Just a person.
>> Uh-huh. And the thing is, you know,
there's a lot of danger there. If you're
a if you're a, you know, a shepherd or a
tea boy and you make $40 a month and all
of a sudden you have $25 million,
something's up.
>> And what was the 25 million for?
>> It was for a very high ranking
foreign terrorist who was brought to
justice. I I can't I can't say because
it was never
publicly disclosed. But what we would
have to do in a a situation like that is
we would have to tell the the source,
you can't live here anymore. Pick a
country and that's going to be home from
now on. And then we go to that country
and say, hey, can you do us a solid?
We've got this guy who, you know, he
really came through and [clears throat]
he's not going to be a burden on your
economy
>> cuz he's got $25 million.
>> Which country did he pick?
>> Oh, I can't I can't tell you that.
>> He wanted He wanted to stay in the
region. He He wasn't willing to move to
the United States, for example,
>> cuz we're happy to take him. You're
welcome to come to the United States.
He's like, absolutely not.
>> You went to Dubai.
>> I would.
>> Yeah. [laughter] With the tax code.
Interesting.
H
I think I'm I think I'm Yeah, you can
tell my bias from the questions that I
ask about the things that fascinate me
about espionage and spies is just it's
the un their understanding of human
nature and what motivates us and the
psychology of humans that you can learn
from um spies and the nature
[clears throat] of human beings I guess.
>> Right. And also, I guess the other thing
that really fascinates me is just
I've had so many mind mind-blowing
moments where I've learned just how
fragile the reality that I believe is.
Like I thought things were secure and I
thought they were as they are, but
>> right,
>> it just doesn't appear to be that way.
There appears to be lots of secrets.
>> And you know, conspiracy theorists get a
hard time, but actually the more I've
done this as a job, the more I go, hm,
conspiracy theorists are right more than
I expected. See, and that's an important
point.
I [sighs]
I hate conspiracy theories that run a
muck, but you know, the the the a former
CIA director is the one who came up with
the term conspiracy theory.
>> And it was it was a way for the CIA to
discredit people by making them sound
like crazy people when in fact there was
such a thing called MK Ultra. There was
such a thing called, you know, operation
grasshopper or or MK Chickwit or, you
know, the CIA did crazy crazy stuff from
roughly 1952 to 1975.
For example, they um experimented with a
a virus
that they
that they released in San Francisco.
They waited for an unusually foggy, like
heavily foggy day. They released it into
the atmosphere just to see if it would
make people sick. And 11 people went to
the emergency room with this rare upper
respiratory infection. And then they
were like, you know, high fives. Yeah,
it works. And then they they started
experimenting with LSD. LSD was a big
thing at the CIA in the early days. We
were convinced. See, and this this is
this is where counter intelligence is
important.
The Chinese
told us in like 1951
that the Russians were using LSD to try
to engineer it to be used as a mind
control drug.
That wasn't true. That was
disinformation. The truth was the
Russians had no LSD program. The Chinese
did.
So they tried to throw us off the off
the scent by blaming the Russians.
We panicked and by 1952 we started this
program called MK Ultra which began by
using LSD
um experimentally.
What the CIA did was they they started
by dosing their own employees without
telling them.
Um, several committed suicide. One
jumped out of a hotel window
>> with the hope that
>> yeah, we'll just see what happens. See
what they say. See how it feels, you
know, see if we can control them. See if
we can plant memories that didn't
actually happen. And then they decided,
no, it's not a good idea to dose our own
people. Let's just dose strangers out in
public. So they went to San Francisco.
They
rented a safe house and they hired
prostitutes to go out on the street,
pick up John's, bring them back to the
safe house.
>> John's
>> John's people who hire prostitutes, men
who hire prostitutes,
dose the John's with uh LSD and just see
what happens.
But I mean these are like serious
crimes you're committing against people.
>> Just reading about it here. It says
under Operation Midnight Climax.
>> Interesting name. Operation Midnight
Climax. The CIA paid sex workers to lure
men to safe houses where agents drugged
them and then watched them through
oneway mirrors and recorded their
behavior.
>> Exactly.
>> They tried to erase their personality.
Nice, huh?
>> The goal was often to break and rebuild
the human mind. In 1973, the CIA
director ordered mass destruction of the
MK Ultra files, what we know comes from
accidentally surviving documents,
meaning this is a sanitized version.
>> That day, he testified before the church
committee. The church committee
specifically told him, "Do not destroy
any documents." He went back that
afternoon to the CIA and said, "Destroy
everything." Why?
>> Because it it was damning. They were
experimenting on American citizens. They
were they were experimenting by
spreading diseases in American cities.
And so
he was held in contempt of Congress. He
was fined like $150
and um about 15% of the documents were
overlooked and survived.
We'll never know exactly what happened
under MK Ultra.
As we sit here now, there's people on
the streets of Iran that are protesting
the leadership there. And the CI the CIA
are often associated with some of the
coups going back to the 1950s. Yes. And
other countries toppling elected leaders
to protect US interests.
>> Yes.
>> Do you think the CIA are involved in
Iran at the moment?
>> Probably. I think the Israelis are
heavily involved in Iran at the moment.
I'll tell you why. for a couple of
reasons, more than a couple. Number one,
in the so-called 12-day war that we saw
last year, the Israelis were absolutely
masterful in the way they went after the
Iranian leadership. What they did was
they
focused on recruiting Afghan refugees.
Iran was home to more than 2 million
Afghan refugees. And as essentially
illegal aliens, they could not avail
themselves of medical care,
the welfare system. They're starving,
right? They only eat if they can beg for
enough to to buy food. And so the
Israelis went to these people very
discreetly and said, "Hey, you know,
we'll give you $200 a month if you tell
us where the generals live. In which
apartments do the generals live? Where
do the nuclear scientists live?"
The Israelis killed the top 12 generals
across the entire Iranian military and
killed almost every Iranian nuclear
scientist because what they were able to
do was to recruit these Afghans to not
just tell them where they were living,
where the generals and the scientists
were living, but what their cell phone
numbers were. And so the Israelis were
able to geollocate the cell phones and
then that's where you fire the missile.
They killed all of them. And then after
the Iranians finally realized
it's the cell phones, they ordered that
no senior military officials and no
scientists could carry cell phones. But
it never dawned on them to tell the
bodyguards not to carry cell phones. And
so the Israelis started rocketing the
bodyguards and just killed everybody
else.
>> Have you ever killed anybody?
>> No, thank God. My children asked me
that. And I told them very proudly that
I have never taken any action that
resulted in the death of another human
being. There's one kind of half
exception.
And I think about this all the time.
In 1993,
I guess it was.
I was sitting in the morning meeting. I
told you earlier that every unit meets
every day at 9:00 and you just talk
about what happened in the country that
you cover overnight. Was in the morning
meeting and the secretary came in and
she said, "John, General Powell is on
the phone for you. Call him Powell." I
said, "General Powell? How does he know
who I am?" and she said, 'I don't know,
but he asked for you by name.
My boss is like,"Well, go answer the
phone." So, I went to my desk and I
said, 'Good morning, General Powell.
This is John Kiryaku. And he says,
"John, if the Iraqis were going to kill
the president, who would actually be in
charge of that operation?"
And I said, "Well, if you're talking
about the attempt to kill President
Bush, George HW Bush,
he had been visiting Kuwait." I said
Kuwait operations are run from the Iraqi
intelligence services Basra station but
Basra station is headed by
um Sabra Abduliz Adori the director of
the Iraqi intelligence service he says
where does he sit I said Baghdad where
exactly in Baghdad I said if you hold on
a second I'll look up the address so I
looked it up I gave him the address he
says thank you and he hangs up the phone
I go back in the
They were like, "What did he want?" I
said, "He wanted to know about Sabradori
and the attempt to kill President Bush."
Like, "Okay."
Eight hours later, we fired 47 cruise
missiles into Iraqi intelligence service
headquarters. But by then, it was the
middle of the night in Baghdad and we
killed the janitor.
So the next day, I said to my boss, "I
killed that janitor." And he said, "I
knew you were gonna say that. You didn't
kill the janitor. You had no idea what
Pal was going to do with him with the
information.
I said, I know, but I still feel guilty
about it.
Other than that, thank God I never had
to do it. I'm not sure how I would sleep
at night.
>> Do the US still assassinate people by
the CIA?
>> Absolutely. Yes. When Barack Obama was
president, John Brennan uh in the first
term was the deputy national security
adviser for counterterrorism and he
started something called the Tuesday
morning kill list meeting. So it would
be Brennan, it would be the National
Security Council attorney, somebody from
the CIA uh general counsel's office and
a representative of the director of the
counterterrorism center. And every
Tuesday morning they would meet at the
White House, come up with a list of
people to kill that week. The teams
would fan out around the world, kill
their targets, and then go back and meet
next Tuesday morning.
>> And are these world leaders or are they
normal?
>> No, these are these are ground level
terrorists.
>> Okay. So, it could be
someone that appears to be a normal
civilian, but is doing something that
they don't like.
>> The law is pretty clear on this. it it's
supposed to be somebody who poses a
clear and present danger to the United
States, to an American citizen, or to an
American installation,
>> which can be quite a vague.
>> See, that's the thing. It sounds like
it's clear. It's actually not at all
clear. And when they get back from these
missions, we just have to take their
word for it.
Which um spy force around the world did
you think was the most
impressive?
>> Oh, the Israelis.
>> Really?
>> Yeah. The Israelis have no rules.
They'll kill anybody. Uh what was it 3
years ago? This uh this pager operation.
>> Oh, it was so fascinating.
>> Good lord. It was it was a work of
genius.
>> It is genius. It is.
>> It was totally illegal.
>> Totally illegal. But it was genius. The
the moving parts.
>> I I didn't believe it was real. I had to
like re I was like, there's no way that
this is real. This is the stuff of
movies.
>> It is.
>> For anyone that doesn't know, what was
the story?
>> Ah, yeah. Okay. So, the Israelis knew
that Hezbollah, the terrorist group
Hezbollah [clears throat] from Lebanon,
was communicating using pagers. They
didn't want to use cell phones cuz they
didn't want the Israelis to intercept
their phone calls. And they thought,
"Oh, pagers, th those are safe." So the
Israelis
bought a company in like Hungary, I
think it was, that made pagers
and they got Hezbollah to order the
pagers from this company.
They were able to insert explosives in
the pagers. And the pagers went to like
Taiwan and from Taiwan to Thailand and
then from Thailand to I forget where,
Syria, I guess. And then from Syria to
Lebanon.
And so what the Israelis did was they
were able to activate the explosives in
all the pagers simultaneously,
>> killing people.
>> They killed everybody of any import.
They essentially decapitated Hezbollah.
And then the ones they didn't kill in
that operation,
they bombed the apartment buildings
where they lived. See, this is the
thing, too, about the Israelis. If they
want to kill you, they won't
they won't like just do a close-in hit.
They'll blow up the entire city block
where you live. They'll kill a thousand
people just to get you. And they don't
care. And then then they say, "What are
you going to do about it? You going to
go to the International Court of
Justice? Do they do they really do this?
>> Yeah.
>> Uhhuh.
>> Did Did you ever interact with them?
>> Yes.
>> And how did you find [clears throat]
them to be
>> miserable?
My very first briefing that I ever gave
as a junior analyst was to the Israelis.
My boss said, "Okay." He says, "You're
going to give your first classified
liaison briefing." [snorts] So, it's
going to be the Israelis and there are a
couple things you should know. I said,
"Okay." He said, 'We don't allow the
Israelis into the building
ever.' I said, 'Why not?' He said, '
Because they spy on us.' Not only do
they spy on us, they would always bring
gifts like, "Oh, we brought this
wonderful gift for you and you every
every time somebody tries to bring
something in, you have to x-ray it and
it's got like listening devices and it's
packed with two years worth of
batteries." We're like, "You guys, you
have to stop doing this. Every time you
come here, you try to bug our conference
rooms. You got It's bad form. you have
to stop doing it. And then they're like,
"Oh, okay. Okay. We knew you would find
it. We're just kidding. Come on." So, we
have to meet them miles away from
headquarters in a place that we rent.
So,
he said, "Nothing over the secret level.
No top secret information. Just up to
secret." I'm like, "Okay." So, I go with
like a dozen analysts. And because I'm
the junior most analyst, I've only been
on the job at this point, I'm going to
say six weeks or so, I went last. So,
the first analyst says, "I'm the chief
analyst, and this is my briefing." And
then the next guy says, "I'm the
political analyst, and I'm the
econalist, and I'm the military analyst,
and I'm the oil analyst, and you know,
the tech analyst, and it comes to me."
So I said, because I was overt at the
time, I was not undercover. I said, "My
name is John Kiryaku, and I'm going to
brief you on Saddam Hussein's
psychological state of mind."
Well, there were two Israelis there. One
was from Mossad, and one was from
Shinbet. Shinbet is the FBI of Israel,
and Mossad is the CIA of Israel. So the
Shinbet guy, he has his glasses down
like this, and he he he goes like this.
He says, "Spell your name."
So I spell it K I R. I spell it. And he
goes, "You are
Jewish." I said, "Don't you dare. I am
not recruitable. Don't you dare even try
it."
I was furious. We went out of the
briefing. I was going to explode.
Everybody started laughing at me.
They're like, "They do that to every one
of us. every one of us.
>> They try and recruit you.
>> Yeah.
>> To turn against the United States.
On my very first day at the CIA, we got
a briefing from the CIA's director of
security and he said that all of us have
to have in the very front of our minds
the concept of counter inelligence. For
example, he said there's a steakhouse
right down the road on Route 123. It's
the it's the nearest restaurant to the
CIA. He goes, "Don't ever eat there."
Why? Because the KGB thinks we all eat
there. So all the customers are KGB
officers waiting for CIA people to walk
in and start talking about work. Don't
ever eat there. I've never eaten there
to this day
>> because they're potentially all Russian
spies. H. So he said, "Our Israeli
friends have two officers in their
embassy, one from Mossad, one from
Shinbet. The FBI has identified
187 undeclared Israeli intelligence
officers spread all across the United
States, mostly at defense contractors
trying to steal our secrets." Now, we
give the Israelis 95%
of our defense secrets. You want the
F-35? Done. Here's the F-35. You want
this advanced missile? Here you go. It's
on us. So, they steal the remaining 5%.
>> Do you think Jeffrey Epstein was a spy?
>> I believe very strongly he was a spy.
Yes.
>> And who do you think he was working for?
>> The Israelis. I'm confident it was the
Israelis. Why
Jeffrey Epstein
is kind of the stereotypical example
that they give you in training for
what's called an access agent. This is a
different kind of recruit. So, for
example, if you're a foreign
intelligence service and you want
information like close-in information
from a former president,
from the CEO of the biggest company in
the world, from a member of the British
royal family, you're not going to
recruit these guys. You're not going to
recruit Bill Clinton or Bill Gates or
Prince Andrew. So, you do the next best
thing. You recruit somebody who has
regular access to them. And that person
that you recruit is going to need to
make these people feel comfortable and
appreciated.
And so you give him plenty of money. So
he has this house on an island or he has
the whole island. And maybe you bring in
young girls, you get them in
compromising positions just in case you
need to use what's called compromat
compromising
pictures.
We know we know now that Jeffrey
Epstein's house on the island
had video cameras,
hidden video cameras in literally every
room, including the bathrooms.
Why
Why would he care what was going on
unless it was to use that information
against people? As I said, only the
Israelis and the Russians use
extortion as a motivator.
>> So, would they have made Jeffrey Epstein
rich?
>> Yeah.
>> In order to give him that access?
>> How could they have done that?
>> Oh, that's easy. I mean, you you do
[snorts] I mean, governments are the
only ones really that can money that can
launder money unfettered. And you can
also do it through real estate, through
fine art, and through horses. Those are
the three easiest ways to launder money
today.
Fine art, real estate, and raceh horses.
>> But presumably,
he would have spoken out at some point,
no, he would have said something or
>> no, but it would explain why he got a
sweetheart deal in 2006. I mean, this is
a guy that's been convicted of child sex
crimes
and he gets 6 months of house arrest
with an ankle bracelet. We have
mandatory minimums in this country.
That's a 5-year mandatory minimum of
first offense.
>> He definitely had some interesting
power, didn't he?
>> Mhm. And
Alex Aosta, who was the prosecuting
attorney at the time and then later
became Secretary of Labor under Trump,
Trump won. Alex Aosta said that he was
ordered by the attorney general to give
Epstein the sweetheart deal. Well, who's
the only person that can order the
attorney general to do something? It's
the president.
So,
was it because
>> Epstein was was working on Clinton? Most
of the people down there were Democrats.
I mean, what what was the reason? Maybe
he was working for the US government.
>> It's possible that he could have been
doubled against the Israelis or others.
Sure. Sure, that's possible.
>> If you had to bet
>> Mhm.
>> what would you say if you had to bet
everything you have
on either him being a spy or not a spy?
>> Yeah.
>> What would you bet on?
>> He was a spy. I feel very confident in
that assessment.
I debated Alan Dersowitz about this on
the Pierce Morgan show one time. It was
it was Scott Horton and me who said that
he was an Israeli spy and it was Alan
Dersowitz and General Danny Ayalon, the
former head of Mossad.
Ayalon was kind of into it in terms of
having a fun time. He was just having a
fun time with the conversation. He
wasn't going to admit to anything.
Durowitz was Epstein's attorney.
So, I said that that I believed Epstein
was an Israeli spy. And Duritz
interrupts me like attorneys do. And he
says, "That is outrageous. If he had
been a spy, he would have told me
because I was his attorney and I could
have gone to the White House and I could
have gotten him a better sentence." And
I said, "Wait a minute. You could have
gone to the White House to say, "Go easy
on Jeffrey Epstein because he's an
Israeli spy collecting information from
American politicians. If I were the
president, I would have hung him from a
tree."
And then Piers Morgan said, "General I
Allen, was he a spy?" And he goes,
[laughter]
"Who knows?
>> Who knows?"
>> It's like, come on, man. Who do you
think is the real adversary of the West?
Because we often talk about it being
Russia or
>> I think it's China.
>> Why? What is it that we don't realize
about China and their agenda?
>> Oh, wow. So much. The Chinese are so
good at what they do. And the Chinese
are so patient. You know, in the United
States, we we don't have long-term
timelines for for anything. When we want
something, we want it now. Is that in
part because we have this four-year
election cycle?
>> Yes, I believe that it is. The Chinese
will plan for something 25 years down
the road
>> because they all still be in power then.
>> Yeah. And so, you know, they're really
good at stealing technology.
There are more Chinese PhD students in
the hard hard sciences here in the
United States than you can shake a stick
at. They're everywhere. They're they're
at every major university and they're
really really smart.
And then often times they'll say, "Oh,
you know, I've had such a great
experience here. I'd like to stay in the
United States." Yeah, I bet you would. I
bet you would. So you can spy for China.
>> Do you think that's happening?
>> Every single day.
>> You think that Chinese students are in
America spying on behalf of China?
>> Yes.
>> How could you be so sure?
>> I'm 1,000% sure.
>> How could you be so sure? because we
frequently arrest them and then trade
them for Americans who are in Chinese
prisons.
[clears throat]
>> Yeah.
>> And they're masquerading as students.
>> Mhm. PhD candidates always in the hard
sciences. Always.
>> So, China are the long-term adversary.
And what is it that China China want?
What is it they're doing?
>> And what is the outcome?
>> I think they want a couple of things. I
think that
on a more immediate basis they want
reunification with Taiwan. It's going to
happen someday. Even the Taiwanese will
tell you, "Yes, we're a part of China,
but we're kind of not a part of China.
We're not really independent, but we are
kind of independent."
Even American policy is that Taiwan is a
part of China, and eventually someday
they'll be reunited. Do you think with
everything that's going on at the moment
with Trump in Venezuela and Greenland,
this is going to create cover for
>> Oh, I was hoping you would ask me a
question like that. I think that's very
that's a very important issue that that
the media really aren't talking about.
So,
let's put it in the context of what
happened last week in Venezuela because
they're all moving parts of the same of
the same policy.
So,
we we sent a Delta Force squad into
Venezuela a week ago and we snatched
President Maduro and he faces
international narcotics trafficking
charges in New York. Okay. Some people
are for that, some people are against
it. Whether you're for it or against it,
it's happened. There's nothing we can do
about it now. But
that operation may have inadvertently
given the green light to something that
both the Russians and the Chinese have
long sought. The United States really is
the only true superpower in the world.
You know, the Chinese have a lot more
people. They have lots of nuclear
missiles, but they have one aircraft
carrier. We have 12, soon to be 14. We
have way more long-distance bombers. We
have way more fighters. The Russians are
bogged down in a war in in Ukraine.
They're winning the war, but they're
bogged down nonetheless. So,
did this did this reinstitution of the
Monroe Doctrine saying that, you know,
from 1814 that that the Western
Hemisphere is the is the territory of
the United States, it's up to us to
protect it from foreign powers. Well, in
1814, that meant the British Navy. We
don't really need a Monroe Doctrine and
it's not up to us whether the Argentines
want to have good relations with China
for example.
We invoked the Monroe Doctrine in this
operation to snatch Maduro. So does that
mean then that if we have a sphere of
influence that is the Western Hemisphere
that the Chinese have a sphere of
influence that includes Taiwan that the
Russians have a sphere of influence that
includes Ukraine? because that's kind of
what it seems. It looks like we've given
the green light to both of those
countries and that we're conceding the
fact that it's a unipolar world right
now in favor of a multipolar world. Now,
personally, I think a multipolar world
is safer.
>> What's a multipolar world?
>> Multipolar world is where there's not
just one superpower. There are three or
more.
So in terms of policy, this simple act
of just sending a team in to grab Maduro
has turned international diplomacy on
its head.
What do we do if the Chinese invade
Taiwan? Do we really want to send
American soldiers to, you know, to fight
and die for Taiwan?
>> What do you think would happen if China
tomorrow said, "You know what? We're
going to take Taiwan."
>> You know what? Honest to God, I think
nothing would happen.
I think we would rush to protect
Australia, Japan, South Korea, the
Philippines, Thailand. We'd rush to
protect them.
>> Why?
>> Because they're they're major non-NATO
allies. They're good friends, close
friends. But in terms of going to Taiwan
to fight Chinese soldiers,
I can't imagine it.
>> Trump told the New York Times that
whether China moves on Taiwan is
ultimately up to Chinese President Xi
Jonging.
>> [clears throat]
>> not the USA. Adding that he's told he
would be very unhappy if China changed
the status quo. He claimed he doesn't
think Xi will act while he's president.
>> See, and that is actually what the
long-term policy is. The long-term
policy is sure someday
to be determined later you guys can
unify.
>> Just don't do it while I'm here.
>> Yeah. Don't do it today.
>> Maybe when Trump goes.
>> God forbid.
So going back to this point, you said
they want Taiwan. What else do you think
China want?
>> Well, [sighs and gasps]
do they want to see the US fall?
>> Yes, sure.
>> And are they actively doing things to
encourage that?
>> Yes, but not the things that
that you would expect.
Instead of running around the world, you
know, overthrowing governments, invading
countries, which is what we do,
they go to countries and say, "Hey, you
need a new highway system, we'll pay for
it. You need a new airport, no problem.
You need a new hospital electrical grid,
we have plenty of money from our
gigantic trade surplus. We'll pay for
it. We just want to have really good,
friendly relations with you." And that's
what they do. The Chinese essentially
own Africa right now.
>> What are you most concerned about in the
world at the moment? What what does
actually keep you up at night? What
frightens me the most is that the US
government
over the last
well really over the last
50 years or 55 years has so inflated its
military budget
that what we spend on the Pentagon is
now more than the next eight largest
countries combined. mind.
Right. [clears throat]
Donald Trump right now spends a a
trillion dollars a year on the Pentagon
budget. He's asking for next year to be
a trillion and a half.
We can't afford it. Our interest on the
national debt is now the third largest
expenditure in government between the
Pentagon and Social Security and then
the the interest on the debt.
>> And why does this bother you?
>> Because we're going bankrupt. And all
the while, the China, the Chinese are
letting us spend ourselves into
oblivion. The Chinese don't spend that
kind of money. How come I can't have a
bullet train that goes 400 miles an
hour? How come I can't get to Chicago in
3 hours by train? You know, how come the
airports in my country look like [__]
And you go to Chinese airports and
they're pristine with like the most
amazing services and the best
restaurants. How come Chinese roads
don't have potholes? And in my town,
it's like driving across Bosnia.
It's because they decided not to spend
their money on weapons. They spend it on
infrastructure.
>> Do you think that's likely that the US
could go bankrupt effectively?
>> I do.
Yeah, I do. We can't keep up this pace.
It's not possible. We're going to have
to we're going to have to raise taxes
and cut the budget.
>> What's the most important thing that we
didn't talk about that we should have
talked about, John?
>> Oh, that's a good question.
One of the most important things in my
life to tell you the truth, uh, is the
issue of ethics. I love this country
more than anything else in the world,
and I wanted to do the right thing.
We're a country of laws and we have to
obey our laws, which is why I blew the
whistle on the torture program.
>> Who's not obeying the laws?
>> Our government.
>> In what way?
>> We've gotten to the point, and it
started around the year 2000 or 2001. We
got to the point where if we want to do
something, we just do it.
>> Like what? In 1946,
we passed something called the Federal
Torture Act, which banned torture.
Okay. Also in 1946,
we executed
Japanese soldiers who waterboarded
American prisoners of war. That was a
death penalty offense to waterboard
someone. All right. In 1968, on January
the 11th, 1968,
the Washington Post ran a front page
photograph of an American soldier
waterboarding a North Vietnamese
prisoner. When the when the picture ran,
the Secretary of Defense, Robert
McNamera, ordered an immediate
investigation. That soldier was
arrested. He was charged with torture
and he was sentenced to 20 years of hard
labor at Levvenworth.
And then in 2002,
it's legal. We can do it. We can do it
because we're the good guys.
The law never changed. We changed. And
my point was always either we're going
to be the good guys or we're not. Either
we're going to be what Ronald Reagan
called a shining city on a hill or we're
not. It when I was when I was stationed
in Bahrain, I was the human rights
officer. So, I had to write the human
rights report every year that we sent to
Congress. Well, imagine
if John goes in to see the Minister of
Interior. And I say, "Your Highness, you
cannot pick up a 15-year-old kid for
marching in a peaceful pro-democracy
demonstration and then murder him, beat
him to death in the in the police
station, and call his parents to come
and pick up the body." You can't do
that. I have to report that to Congress
and you're going to lose your your
rights to buy American military
hardware. But then the CIA station chief
goes in an hour later and says, "Don't
pay any attention to the human rights
guy. I'll give you $10 million. If you
set up a secret prison here, we're going
to send you some prisoners. You torture
them and then you give us a write up of
everything they say during torture."
Who's he going to listen to? Is he going
to listen to me?
>> Did that happen? Yes.
He's not going to listen to me.
If all of a sudden torture is legal just
cuz we say it is and then Congress is
like, "Oh, we don't know anything
because it's a secret program, so we
can't talk about it."
>> Do we still torture people?
>> No.
I am very proud to say that
when the McCain Feinstein anti-torrture
amendment was passed into law in
December of 2014, John McCain got up on
the floor of the Senate and said it was
because of me, because of my
revelations. He said, "If I had not told
the American people that the CIA was
torturing prisoners in their name,
we would never have known."
That's why I say it was worth it.
>> Do you think you should be pardoned by
by President Trump?
>> I do.
>> Have you written him?
I've [sighs and gasps]
I've
be careful with my language here. I
applied. My name is in the system. I
have very
very high level supporters
who have approached him personally
and I'm hopeful that it happens.
John, we have a closing tradition where
the last guest leaves a question for the
next not knowing who they're going to be
leaving it for. And the question left
for you is, what's something you stopped
doing that improved your life more than
anything you started?
feeling sorry for myself.
I I'll be honest with you. I have
struggled with depression my entire
life.
And after my second divorce,
I went through this period where I was
just I couldn't pull myself out of bed
in the morning because I felt so sorry
for myself. because of the divorce or
because of your life or because
>> the whole thing. I I believed I was just
a loser. I was in my 50s,
unemployable,
convicted felon, barely able to make
ends meet, worried about where my rent
was coming from one month to the next.
And then I thought, "Fuck you. What's
wrong with you?
You don't have to answer to anybody."
And I I told myself no more feeling
sorry for myself. I was going to go make
a career on my own. And so I knew I
would never work for government again. I
knew I would never work in corporate
America again. After I left the CIA, I
was the head of the competitive
intelligence practice at Deote and Touch
spying on Ernstston Young and PWC and
IBM. And it was great fun. I'll never
work in in the corporate world again. So
I decided I'm going to do what I'm good
at.
and I'm a I'm a terrific writer and I'm
told that I'm a gifted storyteller. So,
I'm going to write books. I have two
syndicated newspaper columns that run in
212 small town papers around the
country. I'm on TV all the time. I have
three podcasts, Drogram, every day on on
both YouTube and Rumble. Thanks for
letting me plug them by the way.
>> Go ahead.
>> Uh Deep Focus on YouTube and on Apple
Podcast. John Kuryaku's Dead Drop, which
is just story after story after story.
And now I make a perfectly great living.
I I'm in a long-term relationship with
the woman I'm crazy about, and life is
good.
>> And it all started with that decision to
stop feeling sorry for yourself.
>> Yes. If people around me keep saying,
"You've done nothing wrong. You're a
hero for what you did." And deep down, I
would do it again, then why am I feeling
sorry for myself? I'm right. They're
wrong. They're criminals. So, I'm just
going to go on with my life. And that
snapped me out of it.
So, don't feel sorry for yourself.
Do something about it.
Act.
>> John, you are someone that is very good
at storytelling. You are. You've written
many books. I'm going to link all the
books below. So many incredible books.
I've got some of them here with me on
the floor. Um, I could go through all of
them, but we need another couple of
days. Um, John, thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you so much for your incredible
storytelling, your wisdom, but also just
giving us a window into a world that
most of us know nothing about because
there's so many lessons that I think are
pertinent to all of our lives riddled
amongst there. And I think, you know,
I hope you do get pardoned.
>> Thank you. I hope so. I've got my
fingers crossed.
>> And when you do, hopefully we can come
back again and have another
conversation.
>> I look forward to that. It's been such a
pleasure.
>> Pleasure is mine. Thanks for the
invitation. [music]
>> This is something that I've made for
you. I realize that the direio audience
are striv
goals that we want to accomplish. And
one of the things I've learned is that
when you aim at the big big big goal, it
can feel incredibly psychologically
uncomfortable because it's kind of like
being stood at the foot of Mount Everest
and looking upwards. The way to
accomplish your goals is by breaking
them down into tiny small steps. And we
call this in our team the 1%. And
actually this philosophy is highly
responsible for much of our success
here. So what we've done so that you at
home can accomplish any big goal that
you have is we've made these 1% diaries
and we released these last year and they
all sold out. So I asked my team over
and over again to bring the diaries back
but also to introduce some new colors
and to make some minor tweaks to the
diary. So now we have a better range for
you. So if you have a big goal in mind
and you need a framework and a process
and some motivation, then I highly
recommend you get one of these diaries
before they all sell out once again. And
you can get yours now at the diary.com
where you can get 20% off our Black
Friday bundle. And if you want the link,
the link is in the description below.
[music]
Heat. Heat. N.
>> [singing]